VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES A VIE is an entity that either (i) has insufficient equity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support, or (ii) has equity investors who lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. We consolidate VIEs of which we are the primary beneficiary. We consider ourselves the primary beneficiary of a VIE when we have both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Assets recognized as a result of consolidating these VIEs do not represent additional assets that could be used to satisfy claims against our general assets. Liabilities recognized as a result of consolidating these VIEs do not represent additional claims on our general assets; rather, they represent claims against the specific assets of the consolidated VIEs. We have the power to direct the significant activities of an entity when our management has the ability to make key operating decisions, such as decisions regarding budgets, capital investment, manufacturing, or product development. For securitization entities, we have the power to direct significant activities when we have the ability to exercise discretion in the servicing of financial assets, issue additional debt, exercise a unilateral call option, add assets to revolving structures, or control investment decisions. VIEs of Which We Are Not the Primary Beneficiary Certain of our affiliates are VIEs in which we are not the primary beneficiary. Our maximum exposure to any potential losses associated with these unconsolidated affiliates is limited to our equity investments, accounts receivable, loans, and guarantees and was $9.3 billion and $5.2 billion at December 31, 2024 and 2025, respectively. The guarantee exposure is related to certain debt at our unconsolidated affiliates, which includes amounts outstanding as well as potential future draws up to a maximum amount of $4.9 billion at both December 31, 2024 and 2025, related to certain obligations of our VIEs (see Note 24). The decrease in maximum exposure from December 31, 2024 is primarily related to BOSK as discussed below. In July 2022, Ford, SK On Co., Ltd. (“SK On”), and SK Battery America, Inc. (“SKBA,” a wholly owned subsidiary of SK On) completed the creation of BlueOval SK, LLC, a 50/50 joint venture formed to build and operate an EV battery plant in Tennessee and two EV battery plants in Kentucky to supply batteries to Ford and Ford affiliates. BOSK is a VIE of which we are not the primary beneficiary, and we use the equity method of accounting for our investment. In December 2024, BOSK entered into a loan agreement with the United States Department of Energy (“DOE”) of up to $9.6 billion (the “BOSK DOE Loan”). In conjunction with the loan agreement, Ford agreed to guarantee its 50% share of BOSK’s payment obligations under the BOSK DOE Loan. After its draws on the BOSK DOE Loan, BOSK distributed $3.1 billion (including $1.7 billion in the first quarter of 2025) to Ford as returns of capital. As of December 31, 2025, Ford recognized contributions (net of returns of capital) to BOSK of $3.5 billion of its agreed capital contribution of up to $6.6 billion through 2026. The total amount of capital contributions is subject to adjustments agreed to by the parties. Since the formation of BOSK, our and the automotive industry’s expectations for EV adoption rates have shifted significantly and led to a decline in our expected volume requirements for batteries. Accordingly, in December 2025, Ford, SK On, SKBA, and BOSK entered into a Joint Venture Disposition Agreement (“JVDA”), which is expected to close in the first half of 2026. Pursuant to the JVDA, our membership interest in BOSK will be redeemed, and a Ford subsidiary will receive the two Kentucky plants and related assets, and will assume the related liabilities, including the portion of the BOSK DOE Loan related to the Kentucky plants, which Ford guaranteed as noted above. We used the market and cost approaches to estimate the fair value of BOSK’s long-lived assets and determined the value of the liabilities to be assumed is expected to exceed the value of the assets received. Accordingly, we do not expect to recover the carrying amount of our investment in BOSK. Therefore, in the fourth quarter of 2025, we recorded a $3.2 billion pre-tax impairment charge, which includes our share of BOSK’s long-lived asset impairment (see Note 14). The non-cash charge is reported in Equity in net income/(loss) of affiliated companies . The carrying value of our investment in BOSK is $0 as of December 31, 2025. Upon closing of the transactions contemplated by the JVDA, we expect to recognize additional charges primarily because the value of the liabilities to be assumed is expected to exceed the value of the assets received. Moreover, upon closing, Ford will no longer have an obligation to make capital contributions to BOSK and will be released from the BOSK DOE Loan guarantee related to the Tennessee plant. NOTE 23. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES (Continued) VIEs of Which We Are the Primary Beneficiary Securitization Entities. Through Ford Credit, we securitize, transfer, and service financial assets associated with consumer finance receivables, operating leases, and wholesale loans. Our securitization transactions typically involve the legal transfer of financial assets to bankruptcy remote SPEs. We generally retain a portion of the economic interests in the asset-backed securitization transactions, which could be retained in the form of a portion of the senior interests, the subordinated interests, cash reserve accounts, residual interests, and servicing rights. The transfers of assets in our securitization transactions do not qualify for accounting sale treatment. In most cases, the bankruptcy remote SPEs meet the definition of VIEs for which we are the primary beneficiary and, therefore, are consolidated. We account for all securitization transactions as if they were secured financing and therefore the assets, liabilities, and related activity of these transactions are consolidated in our financial statements. See Note 18 for additional information on the accounting for asset-backed debt and the assets securing this debt.