U.S. GAAP permits entities to present derivative receivables and derivative payables with the same counterparty and the related cash collateral receivables and payables on a net basis on the Consolidated balance sheets when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. U.S. GAAP also permits securities sold and purchased under repurchase agreements and securities borrowed or loaned under securities loan agreements to be presented net when specified conditions are met, including the existence of a legally enforceable master netting agreement. The Firm has elected to net such balances where it has determined that the specified conditions are met. The Firm uses master netting agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk in certain transactions, including derivative contracts, resale, repurchase, securities borrowed and securities loaned agreements. A master netting agreement is a single agreement with a counterparty that permits multiple transactions governed by that agreement to be terminated or accelerated and settled through a single payment in a single currency in the event of a default (e.g., bankruptcy, failure to make a required payment or securities transfer or deliver collateral or margin when due). Upon the exercise of derivatives termination rights by the non-defaulting party (i) all transactions are terminated, (ii) all transactions are valued and the positive values of “in the money” transactions are netted against the negative values of “out of the money” transactions and (iii) the only remaining payment obligation is of one of the parties to pay the netted termination amount. Upon exercise of default rights under repurchase agreements and securities loan agreements in general (i) all transactions are terminated and accelerated, (ii) all values of securities or cash held or to be delivered are calculated, and all such sums are netted against each other and (iii) the only remaining payment obligation is of one of the parties to pay the netted termination amount. Typical master netting agreements for these types of transactions also often contain a collateral/margin agreement that provides for a security interest in, or title transfer of, securities or cash collateral/margin to the party that has the right to demand margin (the “demanding party”). The collateral/margin agreement typically requires a party to transfer collateral/margin to the demanding party with a value equal to the amount of the margin deficit on a net basis across all transactions governed by the master netting agreement, less any threshold. The collateral/margin agreement grants to the demanding party, upon default by the counterparty, the right to set-off any amounts payable by the counterparty against any posted collateral or the cash equivalent of any posted collateral/margin. It also grants to the demanding party the right to liquidate collateral/margin and to apply the proceeds to an amount payable by the counterparty. When the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to a master netting agreement with a counterparty and where other relevant netting criteria under U.S. GAAP are met, the Firm nets, on the Consolidated balance sheets, the balances outstanding under its securities financing agreements with the same counterparty. In addition, the Firm exchanges securities and/or cash collateral with its counterparty to reduce the economic exposure with the counterparty, but such collateral is not eligible for net Consolidated balance sheet presentation. Where the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the counterparty master netting agreement, such collateral, along with securities financing balances that do not meet all these relevant netting criteria under U.S. GAAP, is presented in the table below as “Amounts not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets,” and reduces the “Net amounts” presented. Where a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the securities financing balances are presented gross in the “Net amounts” below. In transactions where the Firm is acting as the lender in a securities-for-securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be pledged or sold as collateral, the Firm recognizes the securities received at fair value within other assets and the obligation to return those securities within accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets.